Roy Thomas Baker: Information from Answers.com
Library
Business
Entertainment
Health
People
Places
Reference
Science
Shopping
Words
More...
Resources
Webmasters
Bloggers
Teachers
Librarians
Journalists
Small Businesses
Advertisers
   Home    Business    Entertainment    Games    Health    People    Places    Reference    Science    Shopping    Words    More...
Roy Thomas Baker
On this page: Select Article
Pop Artist
Wikipedia
Or search:
  - The Web
  - Images
  - News
  - Blogs
  - Shopping
Roy Thomas Baker
Pop Artist
Library > People > Pop Artists Roy Thomas Baker 	Genre: Rock
Instrument: Producer, Engineer
Biography
Roy Thomas Baker produced Queen's "Bohemian Rhapsody" and, if nothing else, deserves his place in history merely based on that brilliant, pristine, and utterly perfect track. Yet Baker, who made his name with Queen and the Cars, is nowhere near a one-trick pony and his flawless production has also helped the likes of Journey, Cheap Trick, Ozzy Osbourne, and countless others. Baker got his start working mainly in the hard rock idiom with bands such as Nazareth and Hawkwind. Yet the pomp rock leanings that he would later perfect with Queen lent those groups a levity that took them out of the dismal hard rock gutter and into the arena. Simply put, Baker made big records. It wasn't until he was paired with the Cars in 1978 that he scaled down his trademark production sound and the result, with its quirky use of electronics and eighth note rhythms, eventually became known as new wave. The Cars had a pop sheen and a simplicity to their records that Baker's past groups didn't. Following the success of the Cars, Baker now split his time between hard rock bands like Journey (he produced the group's Infinity and Evolution albums) and new wave groups like Devo. In later years he produced Ozzy Osbourne's "No Rest for the Wicked," but was relatively inactive during the '90s. ~ Steve Kurutz, All Music Guide Worked With:
Geoff Workman, Mark Volman, Ian Taylor, Howard Kaylan, John Deacon, Elliot Easton, Roger Taylor, Brian May, Freddie Mercury
Wikipedia
Library > Reference > Wikipedia Roy Thomas Baker
Roy Thomas Baker is an English record producer who helped create a number of extremely popular pop and rock records in the 1970s and 1980s. Perhaps best known for co-producing the enduring hit song "Bohemian Rhapsody" for Queen, he also worked with numerous, notable artists, including Guns N' Roses, The Who, The Rolling Stones, David Bowie, The Cars, Foreigner, Journey, Ozzy Osbourne, T. Rex, Devo, The Stranglers, Dusty Springfield, Starcastle, Yes, Cheap Trick and Gasolin'. His most recent production work was for The Darkness' 2005 album "One Way Ticket to Hell... and Back".
Although he now spends much of his time at his studio in Arizona, Baker got his start at Decca Records in England at the age of 14. Later he moved to Trident Studios, where he worked with people such as Gus Dudgeon and Tony Visconti.
The Smashing Pumpkins are currently in the recording studio with Baker at work on their first new album since 2000.[1]
Selected discography
Albums co-produced by Roy Thomas Baker:
Gasolin': Gasolin' 3 (1973)
Queen: Queen (1973)
Queen: Queen II (1974)
Queen: Sheer Heart Attack (1974)
Queen: A Night at the Opera (1975)
Ian Hunter: All-American Alien Boy (1976)
Dusty Springfield It Begins Again (1978)
The Cars: The Cars (1978)
Queen: Jazz (1978)
The Cars: Candy-O (1979)
The Cars: Panorama (1980)
The Cars: Shake It Up (1981)
Devo: Oh, No! It's Devo (1982)
The Stranglers: 10 (1989)
The Darkness: One Way Ticket to Hell...And Back (2005)
The Smashing Pumpkins (as yet untitled new album, possible 2007 release)
External links
An Invitation to the Opera, Sound on Sound, October 1995 - interview with Baker
Mix interview with Roy Thomas Baker by Rick Clark, April 1, 1999.
Mix interview with Roy Thomas Baker by Paul Tingen, March 1, 2006.
This entry is from Wikipedia, the leading user-contributed encyclopedia. It may not have been reviewed by professional editors (see full disclaimer)
Donate to Wikimedia
Copyrights:
Pop Artist information about Roy Thomas Baker
Copyright © 2006 All Media Guide, LLC. All rights reserved.  More from Pop Artist
Wikipedia information about Roy Thomas Baker
This article is licensed under the GNU Free Documentation License. It uses material from the Wikipedia article "Roy Thomas Baker".  More from Wikipedia
On this page: Select Article
Pop Artist
Wikipedia
Or search:
  - The Web
  - Images
  - News
  - Blogs
  - Shopping
  E-mail
   Print  Link  
Mentioned In
Roy Thomas Baker is mentioned in these AnswerPages:
Tension (2004 Album by Split Shift)
One Way Ticket [DVD Single] (Album by The Darkness)
Dangerous Toys (album)
March of the Black Queen
Bug Alley (1996 Album by Gary Hoey)
More> 
Your Ad Here
Tell me about:
Home    Webmasters   Site Map   About    What's new   Help   Advertise   RSS Copyright © 2007 Answers Corporation. All rights reserved.    Terms of Use Privacy Policy IP Issues Disclaimer
