Roy Thomas Baker: TAKING CHANCES AND MAKING HITS
About Mix |  For Advertisers |  Contact Us |  Subscribe
Home 	|	Current Issue	|	Reviews	|	Mix Forums	|	Subscribe Now	|	Online Extras
Recording
Applications
Interviews
Projects
Mastering/Authoring
Studio Business
Products
Reviews
New Products
Buyer's Guides
Live Sound
Applications
Tour Profiles
Products
Sound for Picture
Film/TV
Facilities
Products
New Media
New Formats
Internet Audio
Products
Facility Design
Applications
Profiles
Products
Education
Directory
Showcase
Articles
Special Report: AES Paris
2006 NAB Show
2006 Winter NAMM
AES 2006
NAB Audio Products 2005
Education Directory
2005 Summer NAMM
MixLine
MixLine Live
eDeals
Sign Up Now
MixLine Archive
MixLine Live Archive
Special Reports
Dare to Dream Contest
Barbershop Studio Blog
eClassifieds
TEC Awards
TEC20
Studio Showcase
Seminars on Demand
NAPRS
AES
NAMM
NAB
P&E Wing
Headline News
Site Index
About Mix
Contact Us
Advertising Information
Subscribe Now
Customer Service
Broadcast Engineering
Broadway Sound Master Class
Electronic Musician
Live Design
millimeter
Mix
Onstage
Radio magazine
Remix
Sound & Video Contractor
Video Systems
Prism Business Media
Roy Thomas Baker: TAKING CHANCES AND MAKING HITS
Rick Clark
Apr 1, 1999 12:00 PM
Instead of simply giving rock fans more of the same, Roy Thomas Baker has managed throughout his long and distinguished career to produce audacious and distinctive projects while successfully reading the pulse of the mainstream rock audience. His credits include a staggering number of bona fide superstars, including Queen, The Cars, Foreigner, Journey, David Bowie, Cheap Trick, Ozzy Osbourne, the Rolling Stones, Free, Alice Cooper, Devo, Santana, Ten Years After, T-Rex, The Who, Yes and Frank Zappa. Many other less vaunted artists have benefited from his creative touch, too.
He got his start at Decca Records in England at the age of 14 and later at Trident Studios, where he was fortunate enough to work under such producers as Gus Dudgeon, Peter Sullivan, Tony Visconti and Ken Scott. RTB became one of the founders of Trident's in-house production company, Neptune, where he signed Queen and other acts.
During the last half of the '70s, RTB relocated to Los Angeles and scored huge successes with Journey, Foreigner and The Cars, among others. By the mid-'80s he'd become a senior VP of A&R for Elektra; during his tenure there the label signed 10,000 Maniacs, Simply Red, Yello, Peter Schilling and Metallica. But late-'80s American rock and pop held little interest for him, so he found himself spending most of his time back in Europe, where he produced a number of commercially successful and critically acclaimed releases, including discs by The Stranglers, Chris De Burgh and T'Pau, whose chart topping album and singles remained on the European charts for over a year. T'Pau's "Heart and Soul" was a Top Five hit in the U.S. as well.
Today, Roy Thomas Baker spends most of his time in the U.S. While keeping Los Angeles his home base, he has built a beautiful studio complex of his own, complete with tennis court and olympic swim spa. His elegant facility is a three-and-a-half hour drive from L.A. in the foothills of the Mojave mountains, above the shores of Lake Havasu. His fabulously appointed and well-equipped studio contains hard-wired TLA, Summit and Neve mixers; a rare Stephens 40-track (fine-tuned and maintained by John Stephens) with Dolby SR; and six Tascam DA-88s. Fans of his work will want to look for upcoming releases by Local H, Other Star People and Caroline's Spine.
Much of your production work draws from the best of American and British popular music idioms. What music helped form your tastes growing up, and what elements of that have carried over into your work?
The thing that I loved was the way American blues went over to England and got bastardized with artists like Clapton and the Stones, and then went back to America. It was this continual bouncing back and forth between the two places that all started off with Southern blues players. One of my main inspirations was black music. It didn't matter whether it was Tamla/Motown or Stax or the early blues, which I loved. In fact, I didn't know that the early blues existed until I heard the Stones and Clapton as a kid. I suddenly realized, "These guys are great. Where did they get it from?" That's how I learned about it.
I also loved American pop. I loved the stuff that was being done by Bob Crewe and Phil Spector. When I think of the Four Seasons, The Ronettes and the Beach Boys wafting away with their four- and five-part harmony vocals-those kinds of great vocals were not coming out of England at the time, except in opera.
One common element found on many of your records is huge, thick harmony vocal parts. Now I can see the connection with the Beach Boys and the Four Seasons.
Oh, yeah. You can hear what was inspiring me as a producer, to inspire bands I was working on to do that, or connecting me with the bands that were good at doing that.
With The Cars, you had this band with a sparse rhythm section and a unique singer in Ric Ocasek, but when the harmonies kicked in, it was a wall of sound. They came at a time when rock radio really needed some freshening up.
I was going through my own little demons at the time. I had been doing Queen, which was kitchen sink over-production, which I loved. But in the same way that we had the alterna-music thing in the early '90s, the end of the '70s had the punk era. I would run into the Sex Pistols, because they were working over at Wessex. They were saying the usual, "All you bands are going to be gone because you're over-produced and you're all fags," and all that. [Laughs] It was really funny. I thought, "Maybe there is a point where I should be a bit more sparse." So when I did the first Cars record, we purposely did it very sparse, but when the harmony vocals come in, there are as many vocals there as there were in a Queen record. The only difference is it was in and then it was gone. "Good Times Roll" is a classic one for that. When they sing those words, it's huge and then it's gone, and everything is back to sparse again. I was able to put big vocals on a sparse, punkish background, sort of inventing post-punk pop. With Other Star People, which I recently finished, we're inventing post alterna-pop. [Laughs]
I remember when the first Cars record hit Number One on the charts, I was driving on Sunset Boulevard with Ric Ocasek. We drove past a billboard for the Cars' record, and he said, "If someone had told me a year ago that I would be driving along Sunset Boulevard with Roy Thomas Baker looking up at a billboard of my record that is Number One, I wouldn't have believed him." On T'Pau's "Heart and Soul," your approach to the rap portions of the song was unique.
We did "Heart and Soul," and there was this rap vocal for the first verse; total rap. Instead of just going out to a mic and just talking, I did 12 tracks of talking vocal for one speaker, 12 tracks for the other speaker, 12 for the middle, and then 12 tracks that were put out of phase to wrap around you, and that was just for the rap section, before any singing started. It was scary and was hard work, and it took a couple of days to do it. I remember Carol Decker [the singer] walking out of the studio, bursting into tears, and saying to my wife, Tere, "I hate your f--ing husband," but when the record hit the charts everywhere, it was all fun. [Laughs] So even when I did a straight rap record, it wouldn't be someone merely rapping into a mic; it would have to be something totally unusual and different.
With Queen, the whole idea of big vocals were taken to outrageous, operatic levels.
"Bohemian Rhapsody" was totally insane, but we enjoyed every minute of it. It was basically a joke, but a successful joke. [Laughs]. We had to record it in three separate units. We did the whole beginning bit, then the whole middle bit and then the whole end. It was complete madness. The middle part started off being just a couple of seconds, but Freddie kept coming in with more "Galileos" and we kept on adding to the opera section, and it just got bigger and bigger. We never stopped laughing.
That was at a time when rock bands were so intent on being heavy. This was not exactly a cool idea. It was very left of center.
Exactly. It started off as a ballad, but the end was heavy. For the technical people, who may want to know, the end of the song was much heavier because it was one of the first mixes to be done with automation. What happened was we had VCAs built into a Trident board over at Sarm Studios in London. They put it in with the old Allison computer. If you really listen to it, the ballad starts off clean, and as the opera section gets louder and louder, the vocals get more and more distorted. You can still hear this on the CD. They are clearly distorted. When we got to the end section, the part in Wayne's World where they start doing this [he bobs his head up and down], there was no headroom on the VCAs, yet there was loads of headroom on the Trident mixer. So we got them to disconnect the computer and literally take all of the VCAs out of the faders and give us a direct feed for the faders to the mixer. And we mixed the whole of the end section by hand.
The way we used to mix Queen was very odd, and it evolved over time. We had a big Trident board in the control room, and every one of the guys would have to look after their own little parts. They were turning on tom-toms and riding bass runs and Brian [May] was turning on and off all of his guitar parts. Then we would take all of the outputs from the Trident down to a separate mixer, and I would control all of the drum fills and bass fills and do all of the stuff that I'm good at. So they would be looking after their little bits, and I would actually be using their fingers as automation. Then I basically had the main mix in front of me. It wasn't done on computers. It was done live. The main feed from my mixer was going to the 2-track. So that was the way we would mix a record.
"Killer Queen" was done that way. All the phasing parts weren't done in the mix; they were done live. For example, the part about the "laser beam" was printed to tape with the effects during recording. If you listen to the multitrack, all the effects are on the tape. The only thing different is the end of "Killer Queen" is actually real tape phasing. That was a post-production decision.
So do you typically print effects to tape when you record?
I'm not one of these, "Oh, we'll cut this and leave the effect for the mix." I actually record the effects. There is the artistic reason: People play differently when they hear the effect and are playing to it. Secondly, it makes it so much easier to mix, because the effects are already there. You've got to make these decisions up front. Except for just basic echo, I tend to also use the effects as we go, when we record vocals.
For the really effected vocals on the new Local H record, we did the effects live with the performance. We had already visualized what we needed, so we did that as we went along. When Scott, the singer, sang with the effect in his headphones, he could work with it and make the effect work a million times better.
I always visualize the overall sound of the album at the beginning. You voice the parts and arrange the instrumentation that you use right at the very beginning. With Local H, we knew the running order of the album before we even started recording, so we could work out our segues. We had the plans on how one song would go into another and make the whole album a non-stopping entity. We even recorded everything in the running order, so we could actually edit together the tracks from the 40-track Stephens, so they were flowing together before we even did any overdubs. I never just leave it up to the mix and just hope.
One characteristic found on many of your records is the artful segue.
I love segues, because I like records to be continuous and it gives me a good excuse not to turn off the music and put on something else. Sometimes the record company initially didn't like them, not for artistic reasons, but because they thought that disc jockeys would have a problem taking the record off at that point. So an alternative copy for radio with these big five-second spacings between each song would be made, as in the case of Journey's Infinity. What made it funnier was disc jockeys played the segues even more on that album. They played the first three or four songs of The Cars' first album together, too. [Laughs] Even now, they are still playing the segues.
Your records have always sounded like they were practically exploding out of the radio. What things did you do to help ensure that effect?
As long as you know up front that a certain song is destined for radio and MTV, you should come at it straight out of the gate from the beginning in pre-production. We make sure that the sound is together from day one. The whole idea is to make you sound louder, so that it jumps out in your face. The trick to this has to do with creating apparent volume, as opposed to actual volume. See, the radio station's compressors will react to actual volume and turn the music down. That's why some people's mixes will actually sound quieter than the song previous and the song being played after.
When we first record, we're always saturating. We have all the machines lined up in such a way that we have everything hitting the end stops. I run everything in the red all of the time. I don't look at meters. We run the consoles in the red, especially the tube ones like the Summit and TLA tube mixers and the Neve. We run the machines in the red, right down to the tape. We check back to the tape to make sure that we're not over-saturating.
From what I understand, you've startled more than a few "proper" engineers with your methodology.
Oh yeah! All the time. I just whack those faders up. That's what I do. Especially when I'm mixing the drum rides-I would whack them up so loud that they would saturate the mixing board and then they would saturate the tape machine. Obviously, after a certain level, they don't get any louder on tape. It gets louder when you're watching it, but it doesn't get any louder on tape, because it has reached its peak. What happens is the bottom end fills out. It is technically distortion, but it is also bringing out those nice third and fifth harmonics that you want to hear. Doing it this way adds a tremendous value to the bass end. It makes it grind and pump out on the radio more. It's apparent volume, as opposed to actual volume.
Many artists seem to feel that they should produce themselves. What are your thoughts on that?
Every artist would like to produce their own records. That to me is a bit like someone wanting to be their own lawyer in court, and even if you are a lawyer, you shouldn't represent yourself in court. I think, even if you're a great producer who happens to be an artist, and you're great at working with other artists, you should never produce yourself. You still need somebody else around to make sure you get the best out of yourself, because you can't be in two places at once.
A lot of artists will go to an engineer, who is probably a great engineer, but as of that stage has not seriously produced anything. They forget that there's more to a production than getting a nice, polished sound. People will not go out and buy a nice drum sound if the song isn't there. When Ric Ocasek does his own records, he doesn't always produce himself. He lets other people produce him. Yet, Ric is a very good producer and has produced some hits himself, like Weezer.
Was there a pivotal moment where a light went off and you thought, "I want to be a producer"?
No, I think I always wanted to be a producer from the age of 11 or 12. My opportunity came with my internship at Decca. We called it apprenticeship over there; you call it internship in America. It's basically where you do all the dull work for 24 hours for no pay. [Laughs]
And nothing has changed.
Nor should it change. It's a great way to sort out the people who are really genuine and the people who are in it for a quick buck. You can't make a quick buck in that route. You have to work very hard and eventually, if you are given that opportunity, and you succeed at that opportunity, then there are big bucks to be made. It is hard work up to that point. I think I was paid the equivalent of 12 pounds a week; no overtime, nothing. I subsidized my pay by being a race car mechanic, which I actually thought was great fun anyway. It gave me Saturdays making sure there were great fuel injectors on these race cars.
What would you say is a primary guiding philosophy behind your production work?
My whole thing is, the more different you can sound from anything else around but still be commercially successful is great! Over the years, I've always hearkened back to that philosophy. Back when I did "Bohemian Rhapsody," who would've ever thought of having a single with an opera section in the middle? The first Cars record was totally unique. Even projects I did when I was going from second engineer to engineer, like T-Rex's "Get It On (Bang A Gong)" or Free's "All Right Now," had a different twist on what was basically the same thing.
People need an identifiable sound. When your song is being played on the radio, people should hear who that is, even without the DJ mentioning who it is. That's true with all the great bands, even ones that have been around for hundreds of years, like the Stones. Even though they have had a lot of different changes of sound, you can hear who it is instantly. That rule applies for every great band of the last 30 years. There are thousands and thousands of bands out there with these really smooth, great, generic-sounding records that nobody gives a toss about. Then somebody like Beck comes along and he hits a can and sings about being a "loser" and he gets a Number One, and who knows what that was recorded on? [Laughs] And who cares? I loved it!
If you don't have that identifiable sound, you are getting merged in. If the DJ isn't mentioning who it is, then nobody will know who it is. It will just be another band, and nothing is worse than being anonymous. That is exactly what you don't want.
Want to use this article? Click here for options!
© 2006 Prism Business Media Inc.
Browse Back Issues Select an Issue
February 1, 2007
January 1, 2007
December 1, 2006
November 1, 2006
October 1, 2006
September 1, 2006
August 1, 2006
July 1, 2006
June 1, 2006
May 1, 2006
April 1, 2006
March 1, 2006
February 1, 2006
January 1, 2006
December 1, 2005
November 1, 2005
October 1, 2005
September 1, 2005
August 1, 2005
July 1, 2005
June 1, 2005
May 1, 2005
April 1, 2005
March 1, 2005
February 1, 2005
January 1, 2005
December 1, 2004
November 1, 2004
October 1, 2004
September 1, 2004
August 1, 2004
July 1, 2004
June 1, 2004
May 1, 2004
April 1, 2004
March 1, 2004
February 1, 2004
January 1, 2004
December 1, 2003
November 1, 2003
October 1, 2003
September 1, 2003
August 1, 2003
July 1, 2003
June 1, 2003
May 1, 2003
April 1, 2003
March 1, 2003
February 1, 2003
January 1, 2003
December 1, 2002
November 1, 2002
October 1, 2002
September 1, 2002
August 1, 2002
July 1, 2002
June 1, 2002
May 1, 2002
April 1, 2002
March 1, 2002
February 1, 2002
January 1, 2002
December 1, 2001
November 1, 2001
October 1, 2001
September 1, 2001
August 1, 2001
July 1, 2001
June 1, 2001
May 1, 2001
April 1, 2001
March 1, 2001
February 1, 2001
January 1, 2001
December 1, 2000
November 1, 2000
October 1, 2000
September 1, 2000
August 1, 2000
July 1, 2000
June 1, 2000
May 1, 2000
April 1, 2000
March 1, 2000
February 1, 2000
January 1, 2000
December 1, 1999
November 1, 1999
October 1, 1999
September 1, 1999
August 1, 1999
July 1, 1999
June 1, 1999
May 1, 1999
April 1, 1999
March 1, 1999
February 1, 1999
January 1, 1999
NAMM Live Podcasts
Listen to our day-by-day coverage of NAMM...
Tech Awards, Photos, Video
EM Editor's Choice Awards/Remix Technology Award
Mix Blog at NAMM
Your NAMM Stories
A collection of fun, odd and "interesting" NAMM-related anecodotes...
Full NAMM Show Report
Lines Between MI and Pro Keep Fading, as Developers Go Native
Back to Top
© 2006 Prism Business Media Inc. 	 	About Us | Contact Us | Advertising | For Search Partners | Privacy Policy
